it's just like when you look at medical
history in the past you don't own your
body and so a lot of these surgeons get
hold of these bodies to dissect hmm and
they're digging them up from from
graveyards
there were Body Snatchers they called
themselves resurrection men and they
would go into these cemeteries and they
would dig these bodies and they would
oftentimes strip the body naked because
it was it was illegal to steal
possessions from the corpse but not the
body itself because there was no I there
was no concept of the body being sort of
property so they would throw the clothes
back into the grave and and they were
really clever in the ways they did it
they usually sent a woman in the daytime
to masquerade as a mourner and she would
kind of go through the graveyard and she
would see where the fresh graves were
because of course you'd want the body to
be as fresh as possible and then at
nighttime they would go in there and
they would dig up these bodies and they
could take as many as 12 bodies in a
night it was like hard labor and it was
very lucrative because the only legal
bodies to dissect in Britain in the
early 19th century were bodies of
executed criminals of people who had
murdered other people so if you went to
the like to say goodbye to your Nana and
drop some flowers on her grave and
there's just a big hole in the ground
well they would cover it up but um you
do get these stories of people finding
out that a body so for instance I think
it was in 1785 on this person goes to
this graveyard and discovers that a body
is missing that a body has been snatched
and everybody in the village goes to his
graveyard he digs up their relatives and
drags these coffins back to their home
until they could make the cemetery safer
oh my which is insane because people
were really feared this and so yesterday
on Twitter I put up a picture of
something called the cemetery gun so
they had these devices that they would
put at the foot of the grave and it had
like a tripwire and so you can set up
the gun to shoot anybody good god and
there's actually a really awful story of
a grieving father who this was set up at
the grave and he accidentally trips it
and he gets shot so you know it wasn't
it wasn't exactly a safe way to protect
the bodies but they also had Watchmen
look there it is this for your Instagram
or your Twitter feed that's Twitter yeah
yes sir cemetery gun nineteenth-century
used to protect against Body Snatchers
that is so crazy it's a musket yeah it
was hardcore I mean you'd have to be
quite wealthy as well to set something
like that up at the at the foot of your
relatives grave they also use coffin
collars so that was sort of like an iron
well it was it was a collar and they
would nail it to the bottom of the
coffin so that way so what what a Body
Snatcher would typically do is just open
the foot of the grave
you wouldn't dig up the whole grave he'd
smash open the lid and he'd have
instruments to kind of drag the body out
well if the corpse is nailed to the
bottom of the coffin you're gonna have a
lot of trouble dragging that body out so
people you know they did all kinds of
things they put these cages over the
over the graves to protect them so
people the Internet
god bless its will say to protect
against vampire or to keep vampires from
coming I they had nothing to do with
that or zombies mmm it was to prevent
Body Snatchers from getting a hold of
those corpses but you know those bodies
this yeah there they are mort's safes
they were called oh my god and you'll
see him a lot in Britain um and there
they were people were very paranoid
about this I mean you can find a lot
examples of this and bodies were stolen
a lot and thank God they were on some
level right because think about how much
we learnt from these bodies bodies were
needed to be dissected to teach medical
students yeah and one of the scenes in
the book I talk about the dead house
they called it the dead house and
everybody had a different experience in
the dead house there's probably people
listening who've been in a dissection
room and you have a really vivid memory
of that it's probably bright and white
and clinical well these places the
bodies would have been bloated and
partly decomposed dissecting bodies was
dangerous because you could cut yourself
and you could infect yourself with
bacteria they weren't wearing gloves and
so you get examples of people cutting
themselves and dying within 48 hours so
going into medicine was dangerous and
there's a story in this book about a guy
who goes into the the dead house for the
first time and he freaks out and he sees
all these like mice and rat
and things like that eating the body and
so he jumps out the window and he runs
off but later he becomes accustomed to
it as we all become accustomed to
horrible things at some point and he
actually starts taking pieces of the
corpse and throwing it to the poor
little starving creatures that are on
the dead house and she's yeah so it's
kind of like you know that that horror
that we all experience possibly when we
when we were confronted with death to
accepting it as you have to as a medical
student if you want to go on so the dead
houses is particularly it would have
smelled dissection would have would have
been a winter sport because the bodies
wouldn't decompose as quickly you course
wouldn't want to be dissecting in the
heat of the summer did they literally
have seasons for dissect yeah they would
they would tend to teach students in the
winter so they were like winter jackets
and they would have probably because
well they had a fireplace at the end of
the room as well make a really stuffy
and smelly and you couldn't really
predict what a person had died from as
well so remember people are dying from
things like smallpox which is awful
yeah and this is before bass
vaccinations this is certainly before
antibiotics and so a lot of doctors or
medical students died as a result of
going into the profession